The spear has a secret that makes it
even stronger than everyone thinks.
Everyone's been talking about the spear,
and for good reason, because it's an
insane weapon. It's so versatile because
it lets you hit enemies from further
away than a sword. It can hit multiple
mobs at a time with its jab attack,
which essentially adds sweeping edge to
bedrock. And it can use the new lunge
enchantment, which now takes hunger
instead of durability and means that
with a wooden spear, you can move really
fast. But most importantly, it can
charge, which does damage based on how
fast the player is going. It's pretty
similar to a mace, but so much easier to
use because flying is way easier to
control than falling. It does less
damage than a mace, but it's still
really strong, dealing over four hearts
when flying. But before I tell you the
secret, I just dropped merch. Look how
cool it is. The secret is that while
everyone thinks the spear deals damage
based off speed, no one noticed that
it's based on relative speed. This means
that you don't have to be the one moving
to do a ton of damage. If someone is
flying at you with a spear, you can hit
them back with your spear, and your
spear will do more damage since they
don't have a chest plate